## Data Manager Testing Results

Notes and results from the Data Manager test session on July 6, 2015 at Gemini South.

### Raw File Copying

* Raw files are copied from the DHS directory to the "dataflow" directory in a temp file whose name is the same as the FITS file but with extension ".tmp".  Only when an MD5 checksum computed on the source FITS file and the temp file match is the `x.fits.tmp` file [renamed](https://github.com/gemini-hlsw/ocs/blob/develop/bundle/edu.gemini.dataman.app/src/main/java/edu/gemini/dataman/raw/RawCopier.java#L224-L226)  to `x.fits`.

* "dhs" directory polling is done in a separate timer task which runs in a separate thread and only worries about copying raw datasets to the working "dataflow" directory.  I had thought perhaps the limit of 10 worker threads which was introduced due to a limit on the number of remote connections accepted by the GSA base facility machines might be introducing a delay but that doesn't seem to be the case.

* Full scan period every 2 minutes.  Active scan of expected next datasets poll period is 5 seconds.  First datasets of the night are picked up by full scan and subsequent ones should be found by the active scan.


### Timing Results
* It takes up to 25 seconds to do a full scan of the “dataflow” working directory looking for random new datasets but only a bit over 1 second to do a full scan of the dhs directory.  Of course it is the “active set” scan of expected next datasets we’re more concerned with.

* The copy time is quick once the dataset appears in the DHS directory.  When there is a delay much longer than the 5 second active set poll period, it is a delay waiting for the DHS to write the dataset to disk.

* _Label_ - Dataset Label as seen in the OT (prefixed with GS-CAL20150706-1-).

* _File_ - FITS file name (prefixed with S20150706S and with `.fits` suffix).

* _End Dataset_ - The time at which that the seqexec sends the end dataset event.

* _Found_ - When the poller first sees the file on disk in the dhs directory.

* _Copy Comp._ - The timestamp logged when the file has been successfully copied from "dhs" to "dataflow".

* _Copy (s)_ - How long the copy takes, in seconds.

* _Elapse (m:ss)_ - Time between Dataset End event from seqexec and dataset appearance in "dataflow".  This includes whatever overhead is involved in having the DHS write the dataset to disk as well as the delay between poll periods and the copy time itself.
